# Introduction to Text Analysis

This workbook provides a brief introduction to digital text analysis through a series of three-part units. Each unit introduces a concept, a tool for digital text analysis, and then provides a series of disciplinary exercises to practice the new skills. The book was designed with three key goals in mind.


First, we wanted to provide materials for a text analysis course that do not require extensive training in programming. Courses in text analysis with R or Python are valubale and have their place, but we wanted to explore the possibility of carrying out the same ends using a tools-based approach to allow for the exploration of more disciplinary material than such a course might otherwise permit. Accordingly, here we introduce concepts and methods gradually and in the course of the term, and, while some of these tools are more difficult to use than others, the book requires minimal prior experience with programming to work through these materials. If anything, we imagine this book to provide a taste of what can be gained from further study that *does* use programming.

Second, we wanted to provide a set of materials that could be resuable in other contexts. Originally developed for use in a course on Nineteenth-Century Scandal, Crime, and Spectacle, this workbook draws from these course materials for its datasets and prompts. The book is intended to be modularized enough that it could be used in conjunction with other courses. The tripartite structure of each chapter means that sections can be easily removed and replaced with different tools or content. In particular, we envision the disciplinary exercises in the third section of each chapter to be removable. This book and its contents are under a 

The workbook is not meant to exhaust the topic of digital text analysis: quite the contrary. In its initial use, the workbook was envisioned as the textbook for the rough equivalent of a one-credit lab course taught in close conjunction with a three-credit disciplinary course. 