# Supervised Classifiers

In the lesson on topic modeling, we talked about unsupervised classifiers. We explored about topic modeling could explore texts to find the underlying discourses at work within them. But our input data, our texts, were not really labeled in any way. We did not say, "topic modeler, go out and search for a topic called, 'medicine.' It looks like this. let me know what you find!" Instead, we trusted the topic modeling software to produce a whole bunch of series of words. 

You could maybe think of unclassified classifiers as a kind of roomba. You hit a button, and the tiny little robot dutifully goes out and starts cleaning your floor. It knows when it reaches walls and corners that it should try to scoot around them. And its cleaning brushes are spinning furiously the whole time. You haven't told the machine how to clean, or how to navigate your floor. You just push the button and trust that it has inherent assumptions and protocols that it will follow. That covers the unsupervised part, but an unsupervised *classifier* is obviously more sophisticated and different. Instead of cleaning your floor, topic modeling uses statistics to sort the words in your texts in such a way that you can get a sense of underlying patterns in word usage. 

Let's try another example. Imagine you have a bag with apples, oranges, and bananas in it. Imagine you also don't have any idea what an apple, an orange, or a banana is. Now I tell you to sort the things in the bag. You can still sort them, and you would do so by creating three piles. You take the first item, and place it into a pile on its own. Pull out a second item. Does it look similar to the first? No? Gets a new pile. Third item? Looks like the first one, so it goes next to that one. Each time you pull a new item, you compare it to all the others and revise your piles accordingly. At the end, you'll have three different piles, organized by fruit. But you didn't know anything about those fruits ahead of time.

Now imagine, instead, that I give you a slightly different exercise. I give you a bag filled with dragon fruit, star fruit, and durian. Imagine that you don't know anything about these fruit. I say, "find me all the durian." If you don't know anything about durian, you won't be able to do so. So first I bring in ten examples of durian for you to study. I say, "Look at them. Study them. Pay attention to these characteristics: they have spikes, they are big, and they are yellow-ish." Now, as you look 